Testing.md, before:

# Test Plan

**Table of Contents**

* [Introduction](#Introduction)
    * [Scope](#Scope)
    * [Out of scope](#Out-of-scope)
    * [Quality Objective](#Quality-Objective)
    * [Roles and Responsibilities](#Roles-and-Responsibilities)
* [Test Methodology](#Test-Methodology)
    * [Overview](#Overview)
    * [Test levels](#Test-levels)
    * [Bug Triage](#Bug-Triage)
* [Test Deliverables](#Test-Deliverables)

## Introduction

This project follows agile development using the Kanban method. Formal testing
is kept to a minimum and only release ready software undergoes a proper testing 
process.


### Scope

The scope of this tests includes all features described in the 
project work instructions [here](https://oamk-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/lassehav_oamk_fi/EZEZElaOJsdDkgulKQ4LpF0BfTW-yByp0SdzUKZ1mclqPQ?e=Z48Pnc). 

### Out of scope

Not part of this test plan is ensuring interoperability of the 
backend api with other frontend applications than the one developed 
as part of this project. Not all possible edge cases are to be tested.

### Quality Objective

- Ensure the Application Under Test conforms to functional requirements 
- Only functional code gets deployed to heroku
- The application does not crash under any circumstances, internal server 
errors for example do not count as crash if the server keeps running.

### Roles and Responsibilities

**Test case author**

Defines the test case with all preconditions, inputs, 
instructions and steps to follow to complete the test and 
expected outcomes. Assinges one or two testers to the test case.
The author of a test case can also be a tester.

**Tester**

Runs the test. This includes seting up the preconditions defined 
in the test case, following the given instructions and if the 
test failes file a bug report 
on github. In any case, success or not, the tester notes 
the time and date of testing aswell as the fail/success with 
an optional note below the test case instructions. 

## Test Methodology

### Overview 

The development of the project follows the kanban methodology. 
New features or changes to the application are defined as an 
issue on github and are developed under the responsibility of 
one person. Ideally each issue is developed in its own git 
branch and is only merged into the main branch when it is 
complete and working. Testing is done continuously without 
documentation and the project or parts of it only undergo 
a proper testing process when a release ready state is reached.

Due to the kanban approach to development the applications 
constantly change as the end result is never written in stone. 
According to agile development changes to the specifications and 
requirements are always acceptable when they improve the overall 
product. Therefore specific test cases can only be written close 
to the end of the project, in a phase where major changes are 
less likely to be necessary. In earlier phases mostly white box 
testing is used to approve to changes.


### Test levels

The following levels/tests exist for this project:

- white box testing
- local testing
- online testing

white box tests are done by reviewing the changes someone made to the code 
and giving feedback. This happens on github when a merge request adds many 
changes or causes potential issues and the author wishes a review by someone else 
before merging the changes into the main product. These test are not 
documented, however if the test was successfull the tester can approve to 
the changes on github. In case there are still issues in the proposed 
changes, the tester leaves a comment under the pull request on github and 
does not approve the changes.

Local testing means testing the application under test running on the 
testers computer. All parts of the application, frontend, backend and 
database are running localy. These tests follow a test case and the 
result is documented in the test case document itself.

Online testing means testing the application in its deployed state running 
on Heroku, including frontend, backend and database. Otherwise all procedings 
are the same as with local testing.

### Bug Triage

When a bug is found while following a test case it must be reported on github
as an issue with the label `Bug`. The author of the code that caused the bug 
must be assigned to the issue. Only when the bug is fixxed can the test be 
run again.

## Test Deliverables 

1. Test Plan - this document
2. Test Cases including test results and date of testing
3. Bug Reports on GitHub as Issue with the `Bug` label.
4. Comments on pull requests on Github

Commit message:

added link to bug report folder, removed unnecessary template

Testing.md, after:

# Test Plan

**Table of Contents**

* [Introduction](#Introduction)
    * [Scope](#Scope)
    * [Out of scope](#Out-of-scope)
    * [Quality Objective](#Quality-Objective)
    * [Roles and Responsibilities](#Roles-and-Responsibilities)
* [Test Methodology](#Test-Methodology)
    * [Overview](#Overview)
    * [Test levels](#Test-levels)
    * [Bug Triage](#Bug-Triage)
* [Test Deliverables](#Test-Deliverables)

## Introduction

This project follows agile development using the Kanban method. Formal testing
is kept to a minimum and only release ready software undergoes a proper testing 
process.


### Scope

The scope of this tests includes all features described in the 
project work instructions [here](https://oamk-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/lassehav_oamk_fi/EZEZElaOJsdDkgulKQ4LpF0BfTW-yByp0SdzUKZ1mclqPQ?e=Z48Pnc). 

### Out of scope

Not part of this test plan is ensuring interoperability of the 
backend api with other frontend applications than the one developed 
as part of this project. Not all possible edge cases are to be tested.

### Quality Objective

- Ensure the Application Under Test conforms to functional requirements 
- Only functional code gets deployed to heroku
- The application does not crash under any circumstances, internal server 
errors for example do not count as crash if the server keeps running.

### Roles and Responsibilities

**Test case author**

Defines the test case with all preconditions, inputs, 
instructions and steps to follow to complete the test and 
expected outcomes. Assinges one or two testers to the test case.
The author of a test case can also be a tester.

**Tester**

Runs the test. This includes seting up the preconditions defined 
in the test case, following the given instructions and if the 
test failes file a bug report 
on github. In any case, success or not, the tester notes 
the time and date of testing aswell as the fail/success with 
an optional note below the test case instructions. 

## Test Methodology

### Overview 

The development of the project follows the kanban methodology. 
New features or changes to the application are defined as an 
issue on github and are developed under the responsibility of 
one person. Ideally each issue is developed in its own git 
branch and is only merged into the main branch when it is 
complete and working. Testing is done continuously without 
documentation and the project or parts of it only undergo 
a proper testing process when a release ready state is reached.

Due to the kanban approach to development the applications 
constantly change as the end result is never written in stone. 
According to agile development changes to the specifications and 
requirements are always acceptable when they improve the overall 
product. Therefore specific test cases can only be written close 
to the end of the project, in a phase where major changes are 
less likely to be necessary. In earlier phases mostly white box 
testing is used to approve to changes. 

Bugs can be filed anytime, not only during testing.


### Test levels

The following levels/tests exist for this project:

- white box testing
- local testing
- online testing

white box tests are done by reviewing the changes someone made to the code 
and giving feedback. This happens on github when a merge request adds many 
changes or causes potential issues and the author wishes a review by someone else 
before merging the changes into the main product. These test are not 
documented, however if the test was successfull the tester can approve to 
the changes on github. In case there are still issues in the proposed 
changes, the tester leaves a comment under the pull request on github and 
does not approve the changes.

Local testing means testing the application under test running on the 
testers computer. All parts of the application, frontend, backend and 
database are running localy. These tests follow a test case and the 
result is documented in the test case document itself.

Online testing means testing the application in its deployed state running 
on Heroku, including frontend, backend and database. Otherwise all procedings 
are the same as with local testing.

### Bug Triage

When a bug is found while following a test case it must be reported on github
as an issue with the label `Bug`, and leave a bug report in a shared folder. 
The author of the code that caused the bug 
must be assigned to the issue. Only when the bug is fixxed can the test be 
run again.

The shared folder for bug reports and a template can be found [here](https://oamk-my.sharepoint.com/personal/t1liva02_students_oamk_fi/_layouts/15/onedrive.aspx?id=%2Fpersonal%2Ft1liva02%5Fstudents%5Foamk%5Ffi%2FDocuments%2FAWA&ct=1639065069623&or=OWA%2DNT&cid=592c160c%2D5209%2D542b%2Dfc28%2Dbf6e1a5b6afe).

## Test Deliverables 

1. Test Plan - this document
2. Test Cases including test results and date of testing
3. Bug Reports on GitHub as Issue with the `Bug` label
4. Bug Reports in shared folder 
5. Comments on pull requests on Github
